# Coil_combination_comparative_study
GitHub repository accompanying the paper "Comparison of coil combination technique performance for phase preservation in bSSFP". This repository contains code for the Monte Carlo simulations used for testing the phase preservation performance in phase-cycled balanced Steady State Free Precession (pc-bSSFP) of the following coil combination techniques:

1. Eigenvalue-based approach for Iterative Self-consistent Parallel Imaging Reconstruction (ESPIRiT): Uecker M, Lai P, Murphy MJ, Virtue P, Elad M, Pauly JM, Vasanawala SS, Lustig M. ESPIRiT--an eigenvalue approach to autocalibrating parallel MRI: where SENSE meets GRAPPA. Magn Reson Med. 2014 Mar;71(3):990-1001. doi: 10.1002/mrm.24751. PMID: 23649942; PMCID: PMC4142121.
2. Simple Phase Robust Coil Combination (SRCC): McKibben, N.B., "Robust Coil Combination for bSSFP MRI and the Ordering Problem for Compressed Sensing" (2019). Theses and Dissertations. 7596. https://scholarsarchive.byu.edu/etd/7596
3. Full Phase Robust Coil Combination (FRCC): McKibben, N.B., "Robust Coil Combination for bSSFP MRI and the Ordering Problem for Compressed Sensing" (2019). Theses and Dissertations. 7596. https://scholarsarchive.byu.edu/etd/7596
4. Adaptive Reconstruction (AR): Walsh DO, Gmitro AF, Marcellin MW. Adaptive reconstruction of phased array MR imagery. Magn Reson Med. 2000 May;43(5):682-90. doi: 10.1002/(sici)1522-2594(200005)43:5<682::aid-mrm10>3.0.co;2-g. PMID: 10800033.
5. Intrinsic Multichannel Phase Alignment (IMPA): Xiang Q-S, Hoff M (2019). Intrinsic Multichannel Phase Alignment (IMPA) for bSSFP Imaging. ISMRM, (pp. 1-2).  

The simulations were used for the SNR sensitivity analysis part of the paper, where the techniques were tested across a range of different SNR levels (10-100 in intervals of 10) in a phantom. A noiseless 12 pc-bSSFP phantom was first simulated and isotropic Gaussian noise was added to simulate a 100 realizations for each SNR level. The python notebook "Simulating_phantom_coil_data.ipynb" simulates the phantoms. "SNR_Sensitivity_Analysis_phantom.py" does the SNR sensitivity analysis on the phantom for ESPIRiT, SRCC, FRCC, and AR. "IMPA_coil_combination_phantom.ipynb" does the SNR sensitivity analysis for IMPA (had to be done separately as the IMPA function is MATLAB code). 
